Joan Kandel: Hey,
Joan Kandel: Hi.
iPhone: Hi, you're kicking. Yes.
Joan Kandel: Did I say it right
Joan Kandel: Yeah, awesome.
Joan Kandel: Good, nice to meet you kick and I'm Dr candle.
iPhone: Nice to meet you.
iPhone: Sorry, my have an eight month old son and he just looked at.
Joan Kandel: 20 Oh bad timing, do you need to do something with him before we start.
iPhone: No, he's fine. It's fine.
Joan Kandel: Okay, okay, what's his name.
iPhone: This is London.
iPhone: London.
Joan Kandel: That's a cool name.
iPhone: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: I've never met anyone named London. I think he's the only one.
iPhone: Something different, and original
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it is different international. That's great. Well, welcome to bright heart.
Joan Kandel: I'm glad you're here.
iPhone: And meet you and nervous.
Are you
Joan Kandel: What are you nervous about
iPhone: Boom. So, so I obviously and make you know still into because I'm like, I'm just scared to withdraw. I'm so miserable. I obviously have my son's like wishes, like the cold sweats not hurting and not being able to sit still and being miserable crying like
iPhone: Obviously it so much. It's so horrible. So I just don't want to do this anymore. Obviously, and I got my son.
iPhone: So i'm i'd like struggled with pill addiction on and off for eight years.
iPhone: In the when I was pregnant. I was fine. I was on Suboxone I was in a different program through Midland Texas. Okay.
Joan Kandel: And I
iPhone: Clovis New Mexico right now so vicious like having to drive and then I breast
Joan Kandel: Midland for from Columbus.
iPhone: Two and a half hours.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
iPhone: And then also, it was like
iPhone: An a different state. So my insurance wouldn't take it. So I had it.
iPhone: So it was just a lot, but that's the only place I knew was
iPhone: Yeah. So I did that was pregnant, and then six months after I had the baby I breastfed and so was good and everything and then
iPhone: Just cuts off the wagon basically like a month and a half ago. And so
iPhone: Just now I guess beating myself up and don't want to like keep going through this and keep doing this.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: I'm sorry.
iPhone: No, it's okay. So yeah, so yeah, I just nervous and scared because a
iPhone: Journey for withdraws and as he having to go through that and don't want to anymore. Yeah.
iPhone: Yeah, so I haven't taken anything since last night. Okay, sweetie. So I just know I'm already like starting to like like my body not regulated and just like hurting so
Joan Kandel: Yeah, you're dreading it
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah, I totally get that
Joan Kandel: How much did you take, what did you take last night.
Joan Kandel: And how much
iPhone: Um,
And when
iPhone: I am taking those
iPhone: pills that are like on the street I knows. Oh bad and I probably so like we see so all day yesterday, I probably like 90 milligrams
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And wonder if you usually been taking
iPhone: Photos
Joan Kandel: I mean, how about how much about 90
Joan Kandel: Milligrams or have you been taking
iPhone: More than that, usually probably like 90 to 150 milligrams a day.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And what time last night. Did you take 90 milligrams
iPhone: Well, not all like it.
iPhone: But
iPhone: We like two hours. It was between, like, four and midnight.
Joan Kandel: Okay so midnight was the last time you took anything
iPhone: Yeah, you're like,
iPhone: One o'clock, at least, okay. I was asleep by then.
Joan Kandel: Okay, and about how much did you take around midnight or one
Joan Kandel: How many milligrams, you think that was
iPhone: Only 50
Joan Kandel: Okay, okay.
Joan Kandel: And have you been using other opiates, or just the fentanyl lately.
iPhone: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Is there a lot of that around and Clovis really
Joan Kandel: Associate scary.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that's a scary one
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: When you
Joan Kandel: After, after you gave birth to London, did you stay on the Suboxone
iPhone: For six months, Willie breastfed
iPhone: And then I did I was kidding. Yeah, I quit. Breastfeeding when he turned six months and then it was like, Oh, now I have my body that I can, I can, you know, and
iPhone: My boyfriend. I ever been going through it and it. Yeah, I don't know, just everything. And I was like, Oh, I can just, you know, feel good for one day and do this one day turns into all day.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: It's scary.
Joan Kandel: Did you when you were
Joan Kandel: On the Suboxone. How did you feel
iPhone: Good. I
iPhone: Mean I didn't feel bad and I felt like I like
iPhone: To live day to day
iPhone: Obviously, like you always like crazy you for whatever the pills like Oh shoot, Phil.
iPhone: Yeah, I'm here. No, no, it wasn't bad. I was not miserable and unhappy.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: And and you weren't craving all the time.
iPhone: No, not constantly. I mean, I think it was more like a mind Stieg
Joan Kandel: Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. Yeah. Okay. Um, and, and how are things these days with you and your partner.
iPhone: He's been rush
iPhone: Yeah, but
iPhone: I mean, it kind of goes down to this to obviously doesn't agree with
Joan Kandel: He doesn't use
Joan Kandel: You know, okay.
iPhone: So doesn't agree with that. Obviously, I mean we're better now. And like we can we talk things out, or at least try to. And so, so getting better. It's just hard.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. So he's supportive of you being in the program and getting on Suboxone
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. Good. Okay.
Joan Kandel: And how, how long have you gone without using during the past month and a half.
iPhone: Maybe at the most, two or three days.
Joan Kandel: Okay, so you have gone two or three days without you're saying
iPhone: Well, yeah, because I was strong twice.
iPhone: For luck. I've gone to the withdrawals for like a day, or at least like 15 hours and then I like given or I just can't take it anymore. I find something I just
iPhone: I just, yeah.
Joan Kandel: Okay. Um, and it and when was the last time you we were in bad withdraw.
iPhone: Was
iPhone: January.
iPhone: 19 or 20th
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: So like a week and a half ago.
iPhone: Yeah, like we can have two weeks ago.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. And why did. Why did that happen.
iPhone: Um, basically because we were in Dallas.
iPhone: And I couldn't
iPhone: get hold of anything. And we're supposed to come back early and then earlier than we did. We did it. So then, of course, it's just left without anything, and it's your
Joan Kandel: Show. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay.
Joan Kandel: And how did you get through that time.
iPhone: How did you handle the withdrawal.
iPhone: I mean not easy.
iPhone: Just like lay in bed and literally just cry and my
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Okay, you didn't have any medications or anything to help you through that.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right.
Joan Kandel: The reason I'm asking you about that Keegan, is that when we get somebody onto Suboxone and they've been taking fentanyl
Joan Kandel: It takes a little bit longer to get them on it because the fentanyl really stays in your system longer than other opiates.
Joan Kandel: And so we need to get you to a place where you're where you're feeling pretty crappy before you take the
Joan Kandel: Someone behind you.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay, okay, okay.
Joan Kandel: Before you take the first dose.
Joan Kandel: So, so what we'll do, but we'll definitely get you on to the Suboxone you're going to be feeling much better.
Joan Kandel: Will need to probably wait until
Joan Kandel: Like tonight we'll wait as long as you can handle it. Basically, but the thing that's going to be different this time is that I'm going to prescribe for you. Some medicines that will help you not feel so crappy
Joan Kandel: So, so
Joan Kandel: The reason that we that we want you to wait until you're in pretty bad withdrawal is that I don't know if you know this about the Suboxone but if you take it and you still have opiates in your system. It puts you into worse withdraw that's
Joan Kandel: Precipitated withdrawal really tell me about that.
Joan Kandel: What happened.
iPhone: I wouldn't die.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it's bad. So we want to avoid that. How did that happen to you.
iPhone: I just didn't wait long enough, like you said, and was being
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, so, and you had gotten some Suboxone was that from a doctor or just you bought it on the street.
iPhone: No, it was from the doctor that I had left from like when I was breastfeeding. And before I like stopped going my program there.
Joan Kandel: I see. So you just still had it.
Joan Kandel: With you. And how long did you wait
Joan Kandel: Before you took that
iPhone: I took it like the next morning, so like 13 hours.
Joan Kandel: Okay, and I made you feel crappy
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Yes. Okay. So, um, so it's kind of like
Joan Kandel: You taking the the your mid your, your Fenton
Joan Kandel: Last night, and then taking it around noon day that last time or
Joan Kandel: Two or three
iPhone: Like 10 or 1110
Joan Kandel: Or 11 in the morning.
Joan Kandel: Right. Okay. So, so that's actually a helpful experience.
Joan Kandel: Even though it wasn't horrible thing.
Joan Kandel: But you made it through that. But now you know exactly what you don't want to do so.
Joan Kandel: So I would imagine that it's probably going to take at least until late afternoon or early this evening, or maybe even tomorrow morning.
Joan Kandel: To for you to feel sick enough to take the Suboxone and feel the relief that you're supposed to feel instead of feel that horrible agonizing withdrawal.
Joan Kandel: That you don't want to feel so we are going to be able to avoid that. So I don't want you to be freaking out or worrying about that and
Joan Kandel: But I want you to really
Joan Kandel: Be honest with yourself and not be impatient, like, you know, really, you're gonna have to
Joan Kandel: Talk yourself through this and say,
Joan Kandel: You know that second
Got away.
Joan Kandel: You feel like you can do that. Yeah. Yeah. So the other thing is it's really going to help you to have some of these medicines that I'm going to get you. I'm going to get you.
Joan Kandel: Three different things. One is Clonidine, if you ever taken. Clonidine before
iPhone: Yeah, once whenever I went to the hospital once when I was when I went into the precipitated withdraw.
iPhone: I
iPhone: don't even care. So I ended up going to the hospital. And this was probably it was when I first started teaching the class again. And so it was like probably right it a month and a half, two months ago in
iPhone: The quantity and and like, like a Xanax, basically, but they had to give me like three or four quantity
iPhone: For it like did anything
iPhone: Was like a couple hours.
iPhone: And then something else.
iPhone: Okay, pretty how
Joan Kandel: It did help
iPhone: Yeah, okay.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right. So, um, so, uh, if it's a if it's a natural withdrawal from the fentanyl it's a little bit easier to treat them up precipitated withdrawal so
Joan Kandel: So it shouldn't be quite as bad as it was last time, and you'll be able to take the Clonidine before it gets really bad so that it can get in your system. So,
Joan Kandel: I anticipated this is not going to be as bad as it was a month. A month and a half ago.
Joan Kandel: But so, so I'm going to get you some quantity and that's going to help you with just the horrible, you know that anxiety and the withdrawal and the you know the twitching and the sweating and all that stuff.
Joan Kandel: It should help you quite a bit with that.
Joan Kandel: And then I'm also going to get you some
Joan Kandel: XO friend, which is for the nausea and vomiting and just that real queasy feeling so that'll help with that. And then also some Benadryl which will help you to be able to kind of Concord and sleep a little bit
Joan Kandel: So I'm going to get you those three things if you have some ibuprofen.
Joan Kandel: Yes, like Advil or something. So you can take that
Joan Kandel: You know, for the aches and the pains.
Joan Kandel: So kind of getting ahead of all of these symptoms is really going to help you make it through. As long as you can. And like I say, ideally it would be really nice if you could wait until tomorrow morning before taking your dose of the Suboxone so
Joan Kandel: Using these medicines to really get good
Joan Kandel: That it would be, it would be better than
iPhone: Because the last thing I want for you is to have
Joan Kandel: Is to take it tonight and just feel worse.
iPhone: You know, if you can make it through till tomorrow morning. I think you're going to be a lot better off. And then when you do take the Suboxone
Joan Kandel: I want you to start with just like two milligrams and make sure that it doesn't make you feel worse, it may not take all of your may not make you feel completely better but as long as it doesn't make you feel worse than you can take
Joan Kandel: Care of it.
Joan Kandel: Oh,
Joan Kandel: There's one.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
iPhone: Thank you.
Joan Kandel: Hi, big guy.
Joan Kandel: His precious
Joan Kandel: Kid.
Joan Kandel: And here's why you're doing this, huh.
iPhone: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: He wants you to be the person that you know you are
iPhone: Yes, yes.
Joan Kandel: I'm really glad you're here.
Joan Kandel: I'm glad for your sake and for his sake, too.
iPhone: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: So tell me about you and drugs. When did you start using
iPhone: My senior year of high school really so 2012
Joan Kandel: And what did you start with
iPhone: I smoked meat a little bit
iPhone: After that, and
iPhone: I had tried like Coke, a few 10s of friends and then my step dad was prescribed like large amounts of 3030 milligram oxy Cotto
Joan Kandel: Okay.
iPhone: So I think so. She was actually a digit for a really long time and
iPhone: My biological dad has been in and out of prison like my whole life. I never really knew him and Mike has her own shoes. So I've always been on my own. I just moved back since I had the baby.
iPhone: So this was like the first I'm staying with my mom right now because we're in transition would be
iPhone: Like just a lot. I went from like having everything to losing everything and having a baby and I'm going to move back home and just spend a lot
Joan Kandel: Yeah, there's a lot
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
So,
iPhone: Anyways, like I said, so that's kind of how it started was
iPhone: I would take some for my step dad and doing here and there. And then I would do on hard and heavy for like a year, year and a half, and I would stop for six months to a year, year and a half an hour. Something happened on searching for like six months to a year, and I'll be off.
iPhone: And then I was also tells her like two years probably two and a half years. And then I just met the wrong person. Basically, and who had them all the time available and
iPhone: It just got bad again before I was pregnant, and then once I found out I was pregnant. I was obviously like well I have to figure something out. So I got on the Suboxone and here we are.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: And before you were pregnant. Did you use the fentanyl or just that's only been in the last month and a half.
iPhone: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. Yeah.
iPhone: It wasn't like big like it is now.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it's everywhere.
Joan Kandel: Sadly, the end. Did you has it always been pills or did you use heroin.
iPhone: Heroin so always just the pills.
Joan Kandel: Always pills and with the pills. Do you always swallow them or do you sometimes snort them or
iPhone: I pretty much always
Joan Kandel: Always snort them. Uh huh. So you don't really swallow them.
Joan Kandel: And that's the same with the fentanyl you snort it
Joan Kandel: Have you ever injected pills.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Okay. Where did you live before you move back to Clovis
iPhone: I lived in Colorado for two years.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. We're
iPhone: Colorado Springs.
Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: And you're planning to stay in Clovis once you get settled or
iPhone: We don't know for sure.
iPhone: Clovis Clovis, for the time being.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, sounds like a plan. Yeah, don't want to take on too much.
Joan Kandel: Not one step at a time.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Um, do you have any medical problems, besides addiction.
iPhone: Know,
Joan Kandel: You've been pretty healthy
iPhone: Yeah, I mean, I've had, I had my gallbladder out in high school.
iPhone: Okay, had my tonsils out
iPhone: Okay, I didn't. I mean, nothing major.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you know what years those surgeries or
iPhone: I'm like, I have my gallbladder out in 2012
iPhone: Okay out in 2010
Joan Kandel: Okay, thanks. That's great.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: Do you take any prescribe medicines.
iPhone: It takes so friend for
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: And you take it.
Joan Kandel: All the time, or just every once in a while.
iPhone: Every night was the last
Joan Kandel: Thank you. Okay.
iPhone: Okay, that that makes more sense.
iPhone: So off.
Joan Kandel: I was like, wow, you take that every day. Uh huh. So do you have postpartum depression pretty bad.
iPhone: Yeah, I was pretty miserable here my whole pregnancy.
Joan Kandel: I say yes.
iPhone: All the change and just everything and obviously wasn't planning to have a baby. So it was just a lot
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right. And do you feel like there's a lot helps you
iPhone: Yeah.
iPhone: So, I mean, definitely better than I was before. I was like, emotional and crazy browser don't know if it's just the hormones. Calm down.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. Okay, that how much so left you take
iPhone: 60 milligrams
Joan Kandel: Great. Okay, good.
Joan Kandel: I think that's good.
Joan Kandel: Um, do you have any allergies to anything.
iPhone: He just
iPhone: Like, Gary.
Joan Kandel: Okay, okay.
Joan Kandel: And how many times have you been pregnant.
iPhone: Just one.
Joan Kandel: Just the ones. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Okay, and your
Joan Kandel: How about family history of any illnesses things that run in the family. We talked about addiction.
iPhone: Addiction majorly
iPhone: It was like any other illness.
iPhone: Let's see, Mike.
iPhone: My dad, and this one were adopted at birth. So we don't know a lot of God.
iPhone: And my mom is crazy. She's like bipolar and I don't know, just really up and down and
iPhone: Issues. She's also been on and off drugs like we will live but never been like honest with it. So I don't really
iPhone: Know a lot. I moved out like as soon as I graduated high school 70
iPhone: though. Yeah, and I'm like staying with them one kind of hearing there. So it's kind of hard.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right.
iPhone: I know that she's happy and enjoying it. I don't know. It's just hard.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, I get it.
Joan Kandel: And you have siblings.
iPhone: Well, I just have one little sister.
Okay.
iPhone: She's older
Joan Kandel: She healthy
iPhone: Um, she struggled when she was younger. But now. She's good. She's a nurse and
iPhone: Good and changed and everything that she went through her own stuff.
Joan Kandel: With addiction.
Joan Kandel: common theme.
iPhone: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Me too. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Joan Kandel: Do you do you drink alcohol has that ever been a problem for you.
iPhone: Not a problem. When I was in Colorado, before I got pregnant. I did drink a little
iPhone: Heavier than I
iPhone: Usually did but it was just more by work two jobs I paid for everything on my own. So I was like, I want to go out and have a few drinks. I care.
And now.
iPhone: Sorry, I was
iPhone: A baby. I don't even want like I'll call or anything.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good. And how about tobacco nicotine.
iPhone: I'm here in there, but nothing like consistent
Joan Kandel: So you're not hooked on tobacco.
No.
Joan Kandel: Good.
Joan Kandel: I would strongly recommend that you've never smoke, especially because you're because you're not currently addicted to it and you have a tendency toward addiction.
Joan Kandel: Clearly, so and that is such a nasty, nasty addiction. It's a
Joan Kandel: It's really, really hard to stop and it's just
Joan Kandel: Does nasty things to your body, it's the number one killer.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. So don't do it.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: You're not working right.
Joan Kandel: I can understand that you got enough going on.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Haha, you'd like to do that.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, you like working
He
Joan Kandel: Will get you there.
iPhone: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: You'll get there for sure.
Joan Kandel: Okay, so I'm get at this point I'm gonna read through
Joan Kandel: A bunch of symptoms and
Joan Kandel: Tell me, first of all,
Joan Kandel: What kind of withdrawal symptoms you having right now. What are you feeling right now.
iPhone: Like, like my bodies which are starting to not regulate it was for like eight years and hurting and irritated.
iPhone: Just like
iPhone: Normal. I just want to lay down
Joan Kandel: Mm hmm. Okay. And how's your belly feel
iPhone: Hurts, how many eating or drinking anything. No.
iPhone: Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: You feeling nauseated.
iPhone: Yeah, kind of like, queasy. That's crazy.
Joan Kandel: Okay, and
Joan Kandel: Any diarrhea.
iPhone: Yeah, for me.
Joan Kandel: Okay. All right. So starting to happen. Do you have any goose bumps on your skin.
iPhone: Um, I did a little bit ago I told me that this second
iPhone: Haha I've had a couple times I get started into come a little bit
Joan Kandel: Yeah okay and sweaty at all.
iPhone: But not bad at all.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah, yeah, we're not there yet.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: OK, so now I'm going to just read through a bunch of things and stop me if anything. Sounds like something that you've been having lately.
Joan Kandel: fatigue, weight change, change in vision redness in the eyes pain in the eyes hearing loss pain in the ears ringing in the ears.
Joan Kandel: Bloody nose nasal congestion sores in the mouth pain in the teeth pain in the neck.
Joan Kandel: trouble breathing coughing, wheezing pain in the chest fast heartbeat.
Joan Kandel: belly pain.
Joan Kandel: You said yes to that.
Joan Kandel: Vomiting, you're not vomiting. Right.
iPhone: No.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
iPhone: I do feel like I couldn't having trouble breathing and like I've been. I don't know if I it's like allergies and cynosure but I've like been kind of stopped up my throat has already been hurting me into
Joan Kandel: Pain. When you pay blood in your pay changing Hair, Skin easy bruising.
Joan Kandel: Muscle pain or your muscles feeling achy pain. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Headache, Dizziness numbness lack of coordination weakness difficulty speaking change in mood, depression, anxiety, insomnia, suicidal thoughts.
Joan Kandel: Hey, those
iPhone: That I kind of always have depression, anxiety, I've been diagnosed with like meet severe anxiety before and I've been known to like have anxiety or panic attacks and I
iPhone: Will not I can't like
iPhone: calm myself down or pull myself out of it if like went into seizures before
iPhone: I haven't Odyssey. Sure, since before I was pregnant to God and I haven't had a major panic attacks right after I had the baby.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Well, it's good that you're on the Zoloft, because that helps with both depression and anxiety.
Joan Kandel: So that's a good one.
Joan Kandel: Yep.
Joan Kandel: Can help. How tall are you, and how much do you weigh
iPhone: Five to nearly 120
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you happen to know what your blood pressure has been the last time you had it checked.
iPhone: I don't always know that it's
Joan Kandel: It's low
iPhone: Yeah, it's regular like regular
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right.
Joan Kandel: So now I'd like to do just kind of a quick physical exam. It's kind of weird because we're on the computer. But if you could hold the camera up to your eyes so I can look in your eyes and just the right into the camera.
Joan Kandel: Great. Perfect. Okay, and now look to your right.
Joan Kandel: Good. Look to your left.
Joan Kandel: Great. Look for the top of your head.
Joan Kandel: look toward your feet.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good. And now let me look in your mouth.
Joan Kandel: Perfect. Okay.
Great.
Joan Kandel: Now, and I'll pull the camera back and I just want to watch you to kind of take a couple of deep breaths.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Perfect.
Joan Kandel: Perfect. And now, if you could just kind of push on your belly and let me know if any of that hurts kind of push
Joan Kandel: Kind of places. My belly.
iPhone: Hurts right here, those, like, queasy like
Joan Kandel: Okay. Yeah. Okay. All right.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good. So, um,
Joan Kandel: So let me tell you a little bit about
Joan Kandel: About how bright heart works, how did you find out about right heart health.
iPhone: Actually have a friend that we both used to kind of do close together. Back in the day, and somehow he found out about y'all, and he referred me
Joan Kandel: Great. He told you about it.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, nice. It's a lot better than traveling to Midland
Joan Kandel: Right, yeah. Yep. Okay, good. So, um,
Joan Kandel: So he may or may not have told you about this and they may have told you at the in the virtual clinic, but, um, so the program involves group meetings and we just meet kind of on the computer like this but there'll be it's a weekly group and there's in the group, there's a there's a doctor.
Joan Kandel: And a therapist and we do sort of the medical check in at
Joan Kandel: In the content in the in the group. And then we do like group therapy and process as part of the group as well and everybody gets to know each other and you could support each other because everybody's going through the same thing. And it's really quite helpful that way.
Right.
Joan Kandel: So that's once a week. And that's when you'll get your prescription. So you have to show up to the group's to get your prescription every week.
Joan Kandel: And so we give a week at a time.
Joan Kandel: And and then you'll also have individual therapy sessions so that you can
Joan Kandel: Kind of work through stuff on a one to one basis.
Joan Kandel: So, so for the group.
Do you
Joan Kandel: Can you do Tuesdays at 430 in the afternoon.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, great. Perfect. Because that's my group, and that would be really great. And so I'm in there and then the therapist is Dominique and she's wonderful
Joan Kandel: And there's some real good.
Joan Kandel: Good folks in there.
Joan Kandel: And it's kind of a new group.
Joan Kandel: So a lot of the people in there are kind of at the same stage as you are sort of starting out and it's very supportive and it's really, it's a good group.
Very
Joan Kandel: Good, so that'll be next Tuesday.
iPhone: Like this coming up.
Joan Kandel: this coming Tuesday. Right. So we had it yesterday. So it'll be it'll be the
Joan Kandel: This next Tuesday. And it starts at 430 it goes from 430 to 530 and what you'll do is you'll call in
Joan Kandel: At about four o'clock about a half an hour early to the same number that you called in today. That's called the virtual clinic.
And
Joan Kandel: And then they will every week they
Joan Kandel: Will give you a self assessment. It's called a band.
Joan Kandel: Brief addiction monitor and you, you just kind of grade yourself on how you're doing, how you're feeling and it gives us a sense of how how you're coming along and gives you have a chance to reflect on how you're doing. So they'll do that every week before group.
Joan Kandel: You'll fill out a band.
Joan Kandel: And so when you check into the virtual clinic before group, they'll give you the number to call for the group, it changes every week.
Joan Kandel: So, so it's real important to call them to check in.
Joan Kandel: And then another thing to tell you is that they told you about.
Joan Kandel: Getting lab work done.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay, good.
Joan Kandel: And you have a plan to do that.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay, good. So you're gonna do that sometime this week.
Joan Kandel: Perfect. And with those labs, they'll do a urine drug screen.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: We, we do a drug screen about every month.
Joan Kandel: During the program and you don't have to go to the lab for future drug screen for future urine. They'll actually send it to you in the mail. So, so I want to warn you of this ahead of time when you get this, it's going to be a big package like a big manila envelope.
Joan Kandel: And it's from us. And when you get that down below. Don't open them.
Joan Kandel: Know, okay, I'm not supposed to
iPhone: Open this
Joan Kandel: And then
iPhone: Call the virtual clinic.
Joan Kandel: And say, Hey, I got this. I got this envelope. What am I
iPhone: Supposed to do
Joan Kandel: And they'll have you open it. They want to watch you open it and then watch you take the thing out, and then up and then they'll
Joan Kandel: Go through the test with you. So you get to do it just at
Joan Kandel: Home. It's super easy, but they need you to open it in front of them.
Joan Kandel: Okay, okay.
Joan Kandel: Oh, London.
Joan Kandel: cutie pie.
Joan Kandel: Hi, London.
Joan Kandel: Or something, some cheeks. You have Mr.
Joan Kandel: Those are some cheeks. I just want to eat them in a fight them.
Joan Kandel: Are nice cheek.
Everybody says
Joan Kandel: What a cutie.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, hi.
Joan Kandel: Yeah well Sherry's curious.
Joan Kandel: That's a good thing.
Joan Kandel: Okay, so
Joan Kandel: You're able to get to the pharmacy today.
Joan Kandel: Yes. Okay, good.
Joan Kandel: So,
Joan Kandel: What I'm gonna do is
Joan Kandel: When you were on the Suboxone before what was a good dose for you.
iPhone: Usually took two to three eight milligrams a day.
Joan Kandel: So, uh, and you would just be two to three meaning like you wouldn't take the same dose every day.
iPhone: I mean, so they had me started like three a day.
iPhone: And then they like start like their program is like, whether you like they didn't ask as much like how you're feeling and
iPhone: It's just more of like okay at this date. Then he looked down at this at this day you cut down to this. And so, um,
iPhone: I don't know. I eat. I mean, I feel like I felt better when I would like take a Suboxone like right when I would take it and that first like our I would feel good and happy and okay and
iPhone: Once it starts wearing often I would be like, eager to take another one, kind of, I don't know.
Joan Kandel: Yeah okay so
Joan Kandel: We'd like to do a little more consistency and a little more individualization because everybody's different. And you know, it's not one one dose fits all, in my experience, most people
Joan Kandel: Do well somewhere between eight and 16 milligrams. Most people don't need to go up to 24 milligrams
Joan Kandel: And and we'll just kind of see how you do.
Joan Kandel: But I would suggest that we start you at 16 milligrams, because I think that you'll probably need that dose at least to start and then we may be able to scale back a little bit, but it would it would be only if you're feeling okay you know
Right.
Joan Kandel: Because I want you to feel
Joan Kandel: My goal is for you to feel functional and not be craving and not be thinking about using all the time and I don't want it to be a struggle for you every day. I want you to feel like you take your dose in the morning.
Joan Kandel: And then you don't think about it anymore because you're feeling fine until the next morning.
Joan Kandel: So that's our that's our goal. That's what we so when when you're feeling that way they when we know you're at a good dose. So we want to get you to that good dose and some people feel that way on four milligrams
Joan Kandel: And they feel like, you know what, I don't need more than this. It's lasting me 24 hours. I'm not craving. I'm not thinking about drugs. I just take my medicine and I feel fine, it's really different for everybody. So, so, but we'll start you at 16 and and see how you do.
Joan Kandel: But definitely when you take your first dose. You're not taking 16 because if you were to take 16 and it puts you in a push up that precipitated withdrawal.
Joan Kandel: There's just nothing to do about it. But so, so I'm going to get you the methods that we talked about, you'll get those at the pharmacy and I'm also going to give you prescribe the Suboxone for you.
Joan Kandel: And I'm also going to prescribe the Narcan for you because it's good to have an arc and kit.
Joan Kandel: For a few nor can kits and take it with you wherever you go, because you never know when you're going to find somebody who's odd and save their life. Do you already have an arc and get
Joan Kandel: Go. Good. You're going to have one. So that's really good. And then at the pharmacy, there'll be refills. So if you ever had to use it.
Joan Kandel: On somebody, then you can go back to the same pharmacy and just get a refill because it's a really good thing to just carry around with you.
Joan Kandel: Never know.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: So I'm going to get you.
Joan Kandel: All of those meds and so
Joan Kandel: I want you to take the the comfort meds, the meds that are going to help you with the symptom. So the
Joan Kandel: Quantity does the So Fran, the
Joan Kandel: Benadryl and the ibuprofen.
Joan Kandel: Which you already have. I'm not giving you a prescription for the ID. Perfect.
iPhone: Right.
Joan Kandel: But those other three and then the
Joan Kandel: So take those and last as long as you can last if you can last until tomorrow at this time, that would be great if you don't feel sick enough tomorrow at this time then wait until tomorrow night, you know, wait as long as you feel like you can. And then when you
Joan Kandel: Want that
iPhone: Yeah, just pushes much
Joan Kandel: Push it as much as you can because you no longer you push it, the more relief, you're going to get when you actually do take it.
Joan Kandel: And then when you take your first Suboxone it's going to be the strips so you'll open the strip. It's okay to cut them. So you'll cut it into four pieces that first strip cut it into four pieces and take just one of them under your tongue.
Joan Kandel: And let it dissolve and and and just feel how you feel. If you feel relief from that two milligrams yes then you waited long enough.
Joan Kandel: If you take that and you feel like I feel even worse, then you just need to stop and wait longer use more of the quantity and muscle, France and wait a few more hours and then try it again with the two milligrams and see how you feel.
Joan Kandel: If you take the two milligrams and you feel like, oh, I actually feel a little better then
Joan Kandel: Take another two milligrams
Joan Kandel: If you, if you don't feel very well, you know, so like if you could take the 2 million rows you like, Oh, great. Whoo. I doubt that's gonna happen because it's not much of a dose, but
Joan Kandel: But if you do, then you can wait until the sickness starts to come back in a couple hours and then take another two milligrams
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: Once you feel like you're not getting sick from it. It's okay to take
Joan Kandel: More of that. So you could take the, the rest of the eight milligrams
Joan Kandel: And then the
Joan Kandel: The second day, just take the eight milligrams to start the day and see if that holds you if it doesn't hold you at eight milligrams. The next day, then take another half so then you would take 12 milligrams that day. And then the next day. You start with 12 milligrams
Joan Kandel: And then 12 milligrams should hold you for the whole day if it doesn't then go ahead and take 16 milligrams
Joan Kandel: A day and see if 16 milligrams holds you don't take more than 60 milligrams in a day because you'll run out.
Joan Kandel: Ahead of next Tuesday. So 16 is going to be your max but 16 will be you'll be feeling a whole lot better than you are now.
Joan Kandel: So did that whole thing makes sense to you.
Joan Kandel: What I just said.
Joan Kandel: Okay, because it can get really confusing. But basically, what you're doing is you're trying to figure out
Joan Kandel: During the course of the day, how much your dose is going to be to take the next day. So if you had to like take a little bit. A little bit. A little bit and you and you totaled up to 12 milligrams take 12 milligrams all at once. The next day,
Joan Kandel: And so keep track of it. Write it down. Take notes, you know,
Joan Kandel: So that you can keep track because with all these little two milligrams and four milligrams, it gets really kind of confusing.
Joan Kandel: Right, yeah. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you have any questions.
iPhone: You think, so if I am like freaking out or have a question.
iPhone: Or something I can like call
iPhone: The office or
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that's a great question. So yes, you can call the office and there's there there 24 seven so they're there if you need. They know how to get in touch with me. Let me also give you my email address so that you can
Joan Kandel: Write to me if you have a specific question for me.
iPhone: Let me write it down.
iPhone: Okay.
iPhone: What is
Joan Kandel: Okay, so it is
Joan Kandel: It's, it's, it's my name. Jay candela candela my name. So it's J K A n d e l at bright heart health. COM. So that's one word B RI GH T H T RT H. P. A. T. H. COM
Joan Kandel: And that's it. So,
Joan Kandel: You can email me if you have
Joan Kandel: Specific questions for me.
Joan Kandel: And any, any other kind of general questions, you can call the virtual clinic, they're always there.
iPhone: You see,
Joan Kandel: Everything sound clear
iPhone: Yes. Okay.
Joan Kandel: And, you know, if you want to drop me an email just letting me know that you've, you know you you took the first dose and
Joan Kandel: You didn't have it precipitated withdraw or you took it and you did just keep me posted that would be really great. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: That was that'd be great. I'd like to know cuz
Joan Kandel: I'm gonna worry about you until I hear
Joan Kandel: Oh,
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah, you're gonna, I'm so glad
iPhone: You're here.
iPhone: Huge difference for you.
Joan Kandel: Okay. Monday.
iPhone: Each
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it's gonna be good. So
Joan Kandel: So I'll look forward to your emails and then I will see you on
Tuesday.
Joan Kandel: Call into the virtual clinic at for for our group at 430
Joan Kandel: Awesome. Okay.
Joan Kandel: And you'll also get a
Joan Kandel: You'll also get
Joan Kandel: will contact you to try to set up an individual therapy session.
Joan Kandel: At some point, I don't know when that's going to be but sometime in the next week or two.
Joan Kandel: So they'll reach out to you for that.
iPhone: Okay. Sounds good. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Great to meet you.
iPhone: Nice to meet you. Thank you so much.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, you're welcome. You're going to be okay it's gonna work out great.
iPhone: Okay, thank you.
iPhone: So you're all the prescriptions. And now, and they'll probably be ready in like, yeah.
Joan Kandel: I would say an hour or two. Yeah, so I send them in through the, through the computer just directly over there. So yes, I'm going to do that as soon as we get off here.
Joan Kandel: Okay. Okay. All right. See you.
Joan Kandel: Bye Bye bye.